# Week6 HomeWork

## Chapter3 P22

#### Problem

Consider the GBN protocol with a sender window size of $4$ and a sequence number range of $1024$.Suppose that at time $t$, the next in-order packet that the receiver is expecting has a sequence number of $k$. Assume that the medium does not reorder messages. Answer the following questions:

- What are the possible sets of sequence numbers inside the sender’s window at time $t$? Justify your answer.
- What are all possible values of the $ACK$ field in all possible messages currently propagating back to the sender at time $t$? Justify your answer.

#### Solution

1. Suppose the receiver has received packet $k-1$, and has $ACK$ed that and all other preceding packets.  If all of these $ACK$'s have been received by sender, then sender's window is $ [k, k+N-1]$.  Suppose next that the sender has received none of the $ACK$s, thus the sender's window contains $k-1$ and the $N$ packets up to and including $k-1$.  The sender's window is thus $[k-N,k-1]$.  Above all,  the  senders  window  is  of  size  $3$  and  begins somewhere in the range $[k-N,k]$.
2. If the receiver is waiting for packet $k$, then it has received (and $ACK$ed) packet $k-1$ and the $N-1$ packets before that. If none of those $N$ $ACK$s have been yet received by the  sender,  then $ ACK$ messages  with  values  of  $[k-N,k-1]$  may  still  be  propagating back. Because  the  sender  has  sent  packets  $[k-N,  k-1]$,  it  must  be  the  case  that  the sender has already received an $ACK$ for $k-N-1$. Once the receiver has sent  an $ACK$ for $k-N-1$ it will  never  send  an  $ACK$ that is less  that $ k-N-1$.    Thus  the range of in-flight $ACK$ values can range from $k-N-1$ to $k-1$.



## Chapter3 P24

#### Problem

Answer true or false to the following questions and briefly justify your answer:

- With the $SR$ protocol, it is possible for the sender to receive an $ACK$ for a packet that falls outside of its current window.
- With $GBN$, it is possible for the sender to receive an $ACK$ for a packet that falls outside of its current window.
- The alternating-bit protocol is the same as the $SR$ protocol with a sender and receiver window size of $1$.

- The alternating-bit protocol is the same as the $GBN$ protocol with a sender and receiver window size of $1$.

#### Solution

1. The argument is $True$​. Suppose the sender has a window size of $3$ and sends packets $1, 2, 3$ at $t_0$. At $t_1(t_1>t_0)$ the  receiver $ACK$s  $1,  2,  3$.  At $t_2(t_2>t_1)$ the  sender  times  out  and resends $1, 2, 3$.  At $t_3$ the receiver receives the duplicates and re-acknowledges $1, 2, 3$. At $t_4$ the sender receives the $ACK$s that the receiver sent at $t_1$ and advances its window to $4, 5, 6$.  At $t_5$ the sender receives the $ACK$s $1, 2, 3$ the receiver sent at $t_2$. These $ACK$s are outside its window.
2. The argument is $True$, it can be justified in the same scenario in 1.
3. The argument is $True$.
4. The argument is $True$​. 
5. Note that with a window size of $1$, $SR, GBN$, and the alternating bit protocol are  functionally equivalent. The window size of $1$ precludes the possibility of out-of-order packets (within  the window).  A  cumulative $ACK$ is just  an ordinary $ACK$ in this situation, since it can only refer to the single packet within the window.



## Chapter3 P26

#### Problem

Consider transferring an enormous file of $L$ bytes from Host $A$ to Host $B$. Assume an $MSS$ of $536$ bytes.

- What is the maximum value of $L$ such that TCP sequence numbers are not exhausted? Recall that the TCP sequence number field has $4$ bytes.

- For the $ L $ you obtain in (a), find how long it takes to transmit the file. Assume that a total of $66$ bytes of transport, network, and data-link header are added to each segment before the resulting packet is sent out over a $155$ Mbps link. Ignore flow control and congestion control so $A$ can pump out the segments back to back and continuously.

#### Solution

As we can see, there are $2^{32}$ possible sequence numbers.

1. The sequence number increments by the number of bytes of data sent. So the size of the $MSS$ is irrelevant, namely, since TCP sequence numbers are not exhausted, $L$ is simply the number of bytes representable by $2^{32}\approx 4.19$ Gbytes.

2. The process is as follows.
   1. We can calculate the number of segments is $\lceil\frac{2^{32}}{536}\rceil=8012999$. 
   2. Then $66$ types of header get added to each segment giving a total of $528857934$ bytes of header. 
   3. The total number of bytes transmitted is $2^{32}+528857934=4.824\times 10^9$ bytes.
   4. So it would take $249$ s to transmit the file.
