# Week$10$ HomeWork

## Chapter $4$ P$11$

#### Problem

Consider a router that interconnects three subnets: Subnet $1$, Subnet $2$, and Subnet $3$. Suppose all of the interfaces in each of these three subnets are required to have the prefix $223.1.17/24.$ Also suppose that Subnet $1$ is required to support at least $60$ interfaces, Subnet $2$ is to support at least $90$ interfaces, and Subnet $3$ is to support at least $12$ interfaces. Provide three network addresses (of the form $a.b.c.d/x$) that satisfy these constraints.

#### Solution

1. $223.1.17.0/26$

2. $223.1.17.128/25$
3. $223.1.17.192/28$



## Chapter $4$ P$20$

#### Problem

In this problem, we’ll explore the impact of $NAT$s on $P2P$ applications. Suppose a peer with username $Arnold$ discovers through querying that a peer with username $Bernard$ has a file it wants to download. Also suppose that $Bernard$ and $Arnold$ are both behind a $NAT$. Try to devise a technique that will allow $Arnold$ to establish a $TCP$ connection with $Bernard$ without application-specific $NAT$ configuration. If you have difficulty devising such a technique, discuss why.

#### Solution

It is impossible to devise such a technique. Either $Arnold$ or $Bod$ must initiate a connection to the other if they want to establish a direct $TCP$ application among them. But the $NAT$s covering $Arnold$ and $Bob$ drop $SYN$ packets arriving from the $WAN$ side. Thus neither $Arnold$ nor $Bob$ can initiate a $TCP$ connection to the other if they are both behind $NAT$s.

