# HomeWork1

## Problem1

R9: Dial-up modems, HFC, DSL and FTTH are all used for residential access. For each of these access technologies, provide a range of transmission rates and comment on whether the transmission rate is shared or dedicated.

$Answer:$

| access technologies |      a range of transmission rates       | shared or dedicated |
| :-----------------: | :--------------------------------------: | :-----------------: |
|   Dial-up modems    |              up to 56 Kbps               |      dedicated      |
|         HFC         | download rates up to 42.8 Mbps and upstream rates of up to 30.7 Mbps |       shared        |
|         DSL         | up to 24 Mbps downstream and 2.5 Mbps upstream |      dedicated      |
|        FTTH         | 2-10Mbps upload and 10-20 Mbps download  |      dedicated      |

## Problem2

R23: What are the five layers in the Internet protocol stack? What are the principal responsibilities of each of these layers?

$Answer:$

From top to bottom, the five layers in the Internet protocol stack are: the application layer, the transport layer, the network layer, the link layer, and the physical layer.

1. The application layer is where network applications and their application-layer protocols stack reside.
2. The Internet’s transport layer transports application-layer messages between application endpoints.
3. The Internet’s network layer is responsible for moving network-layer packets known as datagrams from one host to another.
4. To move a packet from one node (host or router) to the next node in the route, the network layer relies on the services of the link layer.
5. the job of the physical layer is to move the individual 
   bits within the frame from one node to the next.

## Problem3

R12: What advantage does a circuit-switched network have over a packet-switchednetwork? What advantages does TDM have over FDM in a circuit-switched network?

$Answer:$

A circuit-switched network can guarantee a certain amount of end-to-end bandwidth for the duration of a call. Most packet-switched networks today (including the Internet) cannot make any end-to-end guarantees for bandwidth. FDM requires sophisticated analog hardware to shift signal into appropriate frequency bands.



# Homework2

### Problem6

##### Question: 

Obtain the HTTP/1.1 specification (RFC 2616). Answer the following questions:

​	a. Explain the mechanism used for signaling between the client and server to indicate that a persistent connection is being closed. Can the client, the server, or both signal the close of a connection?

​	b. What encryption services are provided by HTTP?

​	c. Can a client open three or more simultaneous connections with a given server?

​	d. Either a server or a client may close a transport connection between them if either one detects the connection has been idle for some time. Is it possible that one side starts closing a connection while the other side is transmitting data via this connection? Explain.

##### Answer:

a. The mechanism used for signaling between the client and server to indicate that a persistent connection is being closed is as follows:

1. Unless the "close" tag is included in the request's Connect header, HTTP/1.1 servers can always assume that the HTTP/1.1 client wants to maintain a persistent connection. If the server wants to close the connection immediately after sending the response, it SHOULD send a Connect header field containing "close".

2. An HTTP/1.1 client may expect to keep the connection open, but this must be based on whether the server response contains a Connect header field and whether the header field contains "close". If the client does not want to maintain the connection for more requests, it SHOULD send

   ```

   ```

    a Connect header field with a value of "close".

3. If either the client or the server sends a Connect header with "close" in it, then the client's request will become the last request for this connection.

4. Therefore, either the client or the server can signal that the connection is closed.

b. Actually, the HTTP protocol itself has no encryption service.

c. No, there is a maximum of two simultaneous connections.

d. If One side has been closed, then it is impossible for the other side to transmit data via the connection. Because it required that client software should be able to reopen transport layer connections and retransmit abandoned request sequences without user interaction.



### Problem12

##### Question: 

Write a simple TCP program for a server that accepts lines of input from a client and prints the lines onto the server’s standard output. (You can do this by modifying the TCPServer.py program in the text.) Compile and execute your program. On any other machine that contains a Web browser, set the proxy server in the browser to the host that is running your server program; also configure the port number appropriately. Your browser should now send its GET request messages to your server, and your server should display the messages on its standard output. Use this platform to determine whether your browser generates conditional GET messages for objects that are locally cached.

##### Answer:

```python
from socket import *
# set port number
serverPort = 12000
serverSocket = socket(AF_INET, SOCK_STREAM)
# Bind the listening address and port
serverSocket.bind(("0.0.0.0", serverPort))
serverSocket.listen(5)
print("The server is ready to receive")
while 1:
    connectSocket, addr = serverSocket.accept()
    sentence = connectSocket.recv(1024)
    print(sentence.decode())
    connectSocket.close()
```

Compile and execute the program, we can get:

```
GET /cs453/index.html HTTP/1.1<cr><lf>Host: gai
a.cs.umass.edu<cr><lf>User-Agent: Mozilla/5.0 (
Windows;U; Windows NT 5.1; en-US; rv:1.7.2) Gec
ko/20040804 Netscape/7.2 (ax) <cr><lf>Accept:ex
t/xml, application/xml, application/xhtml+xml, text
/html;q=0.9, text/plain;q=0.8,image/png,*/*;q=0.5
<cr><lf>Accept-Language: en-us,en;q=0.5<cr><lf>AcceptEncoding: zip,deflate<cr><lf>Accept-Charset: ISO
-8859-1,utf-8;q=0.7,*;q=0.7<cr><lf>Keep-Alive: 300<cr>
<lf>Connection:keep-alive<cr><lf><cr><lf>
```

