# Week8 HomeWork

## Chapter3 P40

#### Problem

Consider Figure 3.61. Assuming TCP Reno is the protocol experiencing the behavior shown above, answer the following questions. In all cases, you should provide a short discussion justifying your answer.

​	a. Identify the intervals of time when TCP slowstart is operating.

​	b. Identify the intervals of time when TCP congestion avoidance is operating.

​	c. After the 16th transmission round, is segment loss detected by a triple duplicate ACK or by a timeout?

​	d. After the 22nd transmission round, is segment loss detected by a triple duplicate ACK or by a timeout?

​	e. What is the initial value of ssthresh at the first transmission round?

​	f. What is the value of ssthresh at the 18th transmission round?

​	g. What is the value of ssthresh at the 24th transmission round?

​	h. During what transmission round is the 70th segment sent?

​	i. Assuming a packet loss is detected after the 26th round by the receipt of a triple duplicate ACK, what will be the values of the congestion window size and of ssthresh?

​	j. Suppose TCP Tahoe is used (instead of TCP Reno), and assume that triple duplicate ACKs are received at the 16th round. What are the ssthreshand the congestion window size at the 19th round?

​	k. Again suppose TCP Tahoe is used, and there is a timeout event at 22nd round. How many packets have been sent out from 17th round till 22nd round, inclusive?

#### Solution

​	a.It is operating in the intervals $[1,6]$ and $[23,26] $

​	b.It is operating in the intervals $[6,16]$ and $[17,22] $

​	c.Packet  loss  is  recognized  by  a  triple  duplicate $ACK$ and If there was a timeout, the congestion window size would have dropped to $1$. 

​	d.Segment loss is detected due to timeout, and hence the congestion window size is set to $1$. 

​	e.Because it is at this window size that slow start stops and congestion avoidance begins, the threshold is initially $32$.

​	f.Because the threshold is set to half the value of the congestion window when packet loss is detected and when  loss  is  detected  during  transmission  round  $16$,  the  congestion windows size is $42$. Hence the threshold is $21$ during the $18th$ transmission round. 

​	g.Because the threshold is set to half the value of the congestion window when packet loss is  detected and when  loss  is  detected  during  transmission  round  $22$,  the  congestion windows size is $29$. Hence the threshold is $14 $ during the $24th$ transmission round. 

​	h.During  the  $1st$  transmission  round,  packet $ 1$  is  sent, and during the  $2nd$ transmission round, packet  $2\sim3$  are  sent; during the $3rd $ transmission round, packets $4\sim7$ are sent; during the $4th$ transmission round, packets $8\sim15$ are sent ; during the $5th$ transmission round packets $16\sim31$ are sent; during the $6th$ transmission round, packets $32\sim63$ are sent. And during in the $7th$ transmission round, packets $64\sim96$ are sent. Thus packet $70$ is sent in the $7th$ transmission round.

​	i.The threshold will be set to half the current value of the congestion window $8$  when the loss occurred and congestion window will be set to the new threshold value $+ 3$ MSS . Thus the new values of the threshold and window will be $4$ and $7$ respectively.  

​	j.threshold is $21$, and congestion window size is $1$.  

​	k.In round $17$, there is $1$ packet; in round $18$, there are $2 $ packets; in round $19$, there're $4 $packets; in round $20$, there're $8$ packets; in round $21$, there're $16 $ packets; in round $22$, there're $21$ packets. So, the total number is $52$

## Chapter3 P44

#### Problem

Consider sending a large file from a host to another over a TCP connection that has no loss.

​	a. Suppose TCP uses AIMD for its congestion control without slow start. Assuming cwnd increases by 1 MSS every time a batch of ACKs is received and assuming approximately constant round-trip times, how long does it take for cwnd increase from 6 MSS to 12 MSS (assuming no loss events)?

​	b. What is the average throughput (in terms of MSS and RTT) for this connection up through time = 6 RTT?

#### Solution

​	a.Since cwnd increases by $1$ MSS every time a batch of $ACKs$ is received, it takes $6$ RTTs to increase to $12$ MSS.

​	b.In the $i-th(1\le i\le 6)$ RTT, $i+5$ MSS was sent, so up to $6th$ RTT, the total throughput is $6+7+8+\dots+11=51$ MSS, so the average throughput is $51/6=8.5$ MSS/RTT. 
