# Week5 Homework

## Chapter2 P26

### Problem:

Suppose Bob joins a BitTorrent torrent, but he does not want to upload any data to any other peers (so called free-riding).

a. Bob claims that he can receive a complete copy of the file that is shared by the swarm. Is Bob’s   claim possible? Why or why not?

b. Bob further claims that he can further make his “free-riding” more efficient by using a collection of multiple computers (with distinct IP addresses) in the computer lab in his department. How can he do that?

### Solution:

a. Bob's claim is possible, Bob can always receive data through optimistic unchocking by other peers, as long as there're enough peers staying in the swarm for a long enough time.

b. To achieve the aim, Bob should run a client on each host and give each client a "free ride", then merge blocks collected from different hosts into a single file. Moreover, he could have different hosts request different chunks of files by writing a small scheduler.



## Chapter2 P28

### Problem:

Install and compile the Python programs TCPClient and UDPClient on one host and TCPServer and UDPServer on another host.

a. Suppose you run TCPClient before you run TCPServer. What happens? Why?

b. Suppose you run UDPClient before you run UDPServer. What happens? Why?

c. What happens if you use different port numbers for the client and server sides?

### Solution:

a. If so, the client will attempt to make a TCP connection with a non-existent server process, and a TCP connection won't be made.

b. If so, everything should work fine, because UDPClient doesn't establish a TCP connection with the server before.

c. If so, errors will occur. Because client will attempt to establish a TCP connection with the wrong process or a non-existent process.